---
layout: post
cover: 'assets/images/cover2.jpg'
navigation: True
title:  SANS Security Leadership Essentials - MGT512
categories: SANS Training MGT512 Info
subclass: post
tags: sans
logo: 'assets/images/home.png'
author: kenton
---

## Essentials

<p>If you're not familiar with it, this class is very true to it's full name: Security Leadership Essentials. It's designed primarily for two types of audience; 1) Non-technical managers who have to manage technical security people and, 2) technical people who are now managers but haven't had much formal management training. It works for a lot of other types of security professional too, but those are for whom it is really perfect.</p>

<p>This duality of audience means that the class has a bit of a duality itself. You'll learn about the essential security concepts that security managers need, and you'll get an introduction to management with a focus on managing a security program. For the management "half" the focus is, now more than in previous iterations, on managing a security program and interfacing with the business. We all know that security managers today need to understand and communicate in terms the business understands and this class helps with that. The technical "half" is designed to help you understand the key concepts that the teams you'll manage deal with on a day-to-day basis. This helps to ensure that you and your team are communicating effectively, just as you must with management.</p>

<p>So what does day 1 bring? Day 1 is all about building a program; We understand that today, security isn't just about buying fancy toys, but it also includes communicating risk to the business and measuring how well you are identifying and mitigating those risks. This day is, like day 1 in most SANS classes, all about building the foundation for what is to come the rest of the week. The security program is the fundamental piece for the week. Topics include:</p>

- Security Frameworks. Specifically control, risk, and program frameworks including introductions to the CIS 20 Critical Security Controls, NIST Cybersecurity Framework, and the FAIR model for quantitative risk measurement.
- Understanding Risk. How do we define, communicate, and measure it?
- Security Policy. While not everyone's favorite, nor most thrilling topic, it is one that is crucial to the foundation of an effective security program. This section includes material from SANS MGT514 - Strategic Planning, Policy, and Leadership, also written by Frank Kim.
- The day ends with material focused on the Who, What, Why, and How or, the Program Structure. It delves into what all of the pieces of the program are and how you put people and process together into a workable format. This helps to ensure you have all of the necessary duties covered and an organizational structure that fits your company.

<p>Along with those topics, there are some group discussions to alleviate what can seem like an endless number of slides. These discussions help you to better understand the frameworks you use, how you can quantify risk, and where you might have gaps in your policies. Day 2 gets technical pretty fast, so get ready.</p>