---
layout: post
cover: 'assets/images/cover2.jpg'
navigation: True
title:  SANS MGT512 Day 2
categories: SANS Training MGT512 Info
subclass: post
tags: sans
logo: 'assets/images/home.png'
author: kenton
---

## Roll Up Your Sleeves

<p>As I mentioned in the last post, Day 2 gets pretty technical. However, for this class, the importance is to understand the concepts so that, as a manager, you can make educated decisions around technical concepts. You don't have to know the math for Elliptic Curve Cryptography, nor do you have to memorize the seven layers of the OSI stack. You should be able to understand when someone says, " This is a layer 7 firewall." though.</p>

<p>Day 2 is titled Protecting Data and Networks so, unsurprisingly, that's the focus of the day. This day, similar to day 1, lays a foundation for security that covers the concepts and tools that we need to secure our data as well as the network infrastructure. The network portion also gives us the basic knowledge we need as managers to be able to understand why we would want to encrypt something at layer 3 vs. layer 7.</p>

<p>The day is pretty much split in half, with the focus of the first half being on encryption and privacy, and the second half being on networking. Encryption looks at:</p>

- Encryption Concepts (things like symmetric vs. asymmetric encryption)
- Encryption algorithms; enough to have an understanding of how they work, but without having to do really hard math.
- Encryption applications; things like VPNs and Email encryption
- There's also a short unit on privacy where we discuss the overlap of privacy and security and what some of the key privacy concepts are (PII, Consent, and some legal precedents)

<p>The network section is a bit of a deeper dive as it's good for managers of technical staff to have a slightly deeper knowledge base. With this knowledge you will have to ask fewer questions and you'll be better prepared to discuss products with vendors and concepts with non-IT management. The sections are broken up in layers (TCP/IP stack layers, not OSI stack layers) and are as follows:</p>

- Layers 1 and 2 overview and attacks
- Layer 3; more discussion on VPNs and encryption at this layer, as well as an introduction to IP version 6.
- Layer 4 with discussion of both TCP and UDP.
- Application layer discussing proxies, firewalls, and other technologies that apply to network layer security<br>

<p>Day 2 is a heavy day and your head will be very full by the end of it. However, I'm pretty confident that you'll find it is either an excellent refresher for those who once knew this stuff really well, or a solid, practical, introduction for those who may have come from non-technical areas of the business. In either case, it does a great job of preparing you for the topics around system security that come on day 3.</p>