---
layout: post
cover: 'assets/images/cover2.jpg'
navigation: True
title:  SANS MGT512 Day 4
categories: SANS Training MGT512 Info
subclass: post
tags: sans
logo: 'assets/images/home.png'
author: kenton
---

## New Security Challenges

<p>Day 4 is called “Leading Modern Security Initiatives” and
covers a lot of the subjects that we now need to be considering as part of a
complete, and up-to-date, security program. Not only do we need to worry about
some of the new technologies and platforms (i.e. cloud), we also need to look
at security with a more holistic approach. This includes security awareness and
proper management of the initiatives we now undertake in a more mature security
group.</p>

<p>The day starts with security awareness and the section is
based on material from the excellent MGT433 – How to Build, Maintain, and
Measure a Mature Awareness Program. The title says it all; this is about
building a comprehensive and mature program for security awareness. Of course,
this material is only a sample, so you’ll need to register for this two-day
class to get the full training. This section covers a really good representative
sample though and helps you to understand what makes a good, comprehensive,
program. Topics include:</p>

- Breaking down the myths of awareness training
- Using an awareness program to reduce enterprise security risk
- How to affect behavioural change
- How to build an effective plan for an awareness
program
- How to prioritize human risks

<p>We all understand that these days, if we don’t focus on the
human side of security, we’re leaving a very large gap in our security program.</p>

<p>Next, we cover portfolio, program, and project management.
As security initiatives become more integrated into the business, we need to
introduce the same rigour of project management within our security team as we
have elsewhere in the organization. How you go about this is up to you, you may
use existing PMO resources or build your own, but the need is there. This
section is based on material from MGT525 - IT Project Management, Effective Communication, and PMP<sup>®</sup> Exam
Prep and covers the PMI model of project management. This covers all the basics
including:</p>

- Why projects fail
- Portfolios, Programs, and Projects and sample team structures
- The PMBOK 5 project groups
- Key aspects to each of the groups

<p>The bulk of
the rest of day 4 is focused on the modern technology part of the day; Cloud
and Zero Trust. These two sections really focus on what’s coming for most
organizations, and what managers will need to know to help navigate their
company into the new paradigms of cloud and Zero Trust. Zero Trust, in
particular, is really an aspirational idea for most organizations, but is made
more achievable by many of the new technologies that are being introduced.
Cloud is here and now, but most companies are still at the experimental phase,
especially with the aspects of cloud that are discussed in this section. What’s
included?</p>

- Benefits and basic terminology of the cloud
- An overview of the Cloud Security Alliance and the resources they have to offer.
- An introduction to Amazon AWS and an explanation of why it’s the focus of this
section
- Technical aspects of cloud infrastructure including availability zones, regions, and
networking within each
- Internet gateways, NAT gateways, EC2 infrastructure, security groups, and how it all
fits together
- Lastly, microservices architecture, API gateways and functions as a service (FaaS).

<p>Then the
Zero Trust section covers:</p>

- Today’s model of trust vs. zero trust
- Fundamentals of Zero Trust
- Technologies that help to enable Zero Trust architecture
- Challenges with Zero Trust

<p>How good are your negotiating skills? We finish the day off by discussing negotiating
tactics, different types of negotiators, and then play a little game where you
get to test your negotiating mettle. Our final section is about vendors,
salespeople and what drives them. Finally, a look at the Analytical Hierarchy
method of vendor and tool evaluation to help reduce the subjectivity often
found when selecting new tools and vendors.</p>

<p>Ready for Day 5?</p>